Name: Drăghici Maria-Ana
Group: 332CA
Tema 1

Solution:

    To every producer it is assigned an id(String) and it is saved
in the marketplace in a dictionary(producers). A producer is constantly
producing products if he did not reached his products limit.
Each producer tries to produce the product(publish function), if it can not, sleep
function is called for republish_wait_time seconds. If the producer
is allowed to publish the product, it will publish it and then
wait n seconds, where n is the number of seconds assigned to the
product just published. Publish function verifies if the producer
reached his products limit. If he did, then the function returns False.
Otherwise, the products are saved in a dictionary with a dictionary as value.
The 'quantity' element is the total quantity of that type
of product, the 'available' value is the quantity available and
the 'producers' element is a list with the producers that produced that
type of product. Once a producer publishes a product, the product
is added to the dictionary if it did not already exist or the total
quantity and available quantity are incremented by 1 and
the producer added to the list of producers.
Also, the value for the producer_id in the
producer dictionary is increased by 1 in order to keep track
of the number of products the producer published.
    To every consumer is assigned a cart id for every order in carts.
The consumer adds or remove products from cart, depending on the
command in carts. When the consumer wants to add a product
to the cart, the add_to_cart function is called. If it returns
false, then the consumer waits for retry_wait_time seconds and tries again,
otherwise the cart is updated. The add_to_cart function verifies if the
available quantity of the product is greater than 0. If it is not,
then it returns false. Otherwise, it decreases the available
quantity and it removes a producer from the list. The products is added
to the carts[cart_id] which is a list of lists of type [product, producer_id].
When a consumer want to remove a product from the cart, the remove_from_cart
function is called. This function searches in the current cart to find the list
that contains the product. Once found, the available quantity of the product
is increased, the producer is added to the producers list of the product
and the list [product, producer] is removed from the cart.
    After a cart from carts in consumers is iterated, the order is placed.
The place_order function iterates through every list [product, producer] in
the cart and for the product, the total quantity is decreased by 1 and for the
producer, the number of products published is decreased by 1. If the
cart is empty, then the function returns an empty list. Otherwise it returns
the cart and the printing is done in the consumer.
    The implementation uses 4 locks. One for registering the producers
and one for the new carts in order to avoid race condition for the
producer_id and cart_id. One lock is used for modifying elements in the
products dictionary: when a product is published, the quantity changes
are isolated by a mutex. Also, when a product is added or removed
from a cart the changes to the products dictionary is also
made using the same mutex. The last lock is used for the
printing to be thread-safe. The consumers use a lock to print
the products so that no over-writing happens.
    The implementation is time efficient as all the products
and producers are saved in dictionary so the access time is
O(1).
    The unit testing tests every function in marketplace using
assertEqual for comparing the results and in some cases,
a message with the problem if the results are different.
    For the logging, for the functions with parameters, a log
is made when entering the function, printing the parameters
and the goal of the function. Before the return of the functions,
a log is made with the conclusion of the function(what happened
in the function, the result).

Implementation:

    All the tasks where implemented. The only extra functions
added in the marketplace are the one for the consumer lock
as the print function had to pe thread-safe.

Resources:

https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/asc/laboratoare/02
https://tutorialedge.net/python/python-logging-best-practices/
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32402502/how-to-change-the-time-zone-in-python-logging

Git link:
https://github.com/mariadraghici/Marketplace